Below a lecture on Git:

<https://kuleuven-my.sharepoint.com/:v:/g/personal/josse_vandelm_kuleuven_be/EfBwr1nhtA5Ol0hS7CUZjaQBoquHcu0Pu3_zZY9LyBIG6w?e=k3zUMd>

Having Git proficiency **is fundamental**.
E.g.)

- What is the difference between GitHub and `git`?
- What are the fundamental commands from git?
- What do they do?

## Some tips

### How often should you commit changes?

**As often as possible**. Good programmers/designers commits 4+ times in a working day.
For example:

- Implement new function/module
- Test the new function → the new function is working
- `git add -A; git commit -m "add new function my_func"; git push origin master`

### How does a commit message should look like?

You should always start a commit message with a verb (e.g. "add file", "fix bug", "improve function", "test ...").
You can always provide more details on a commit message with multiple lines.

### .gitignore file

Many files shouldn’t be uploaded to GitHub (or tracked by git). For example:

- Big files (MB are already a lot! Limit for GitHub is soft:50MB, hard:100MB)
- Tool generated files
- logs, binaries, builds, artifacts, caches…

As a general rule, if a file is generated by a program, that file shouldn’t be tracked by `git`.
If a file is written by a human then definitly must be tracked by git.

**Then how do we avoid automatic tracking?**

It is possible to *ignore* specific directories, files, file extensions, etc.

Below an example:

```bash
#This is a .gitignore file
__pycache__/
*.log
modelsim.ini
```

In the example above git will ignore:

- Any directory (and its content) called `__pycache__`
- Any file with `.log` extension
- Any file called `modelsim.ini`

**I forgot to or I want to include something in my `.gitignore` file, but I already committed. What do I do?**

First things first you need to tell git to untrack your file. Then the modification on the `.gitignore` will be effective

E.g. → [**Remove and ignore all files that have an extension from a git repository**](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/2320895/remove-and-ignore-all-files-that-have-an-extension-from-a-git-repository)

## Pull Requests

For a solid and reliable workflow we will use pull request.
Sending a pull request means that you are _asking_ your coworkers to pull your latest contributions. Before this can happen, another person has to review your code checking teh quality of what you wrote.
The flow looks like this:

open a new branch -> some development (quite some commits) -> review your own code and make sure it passes the CI -> send a pull request
